 3 - A Bastion of Law & Order

          Where do the goodly turn to when they are aggrieved? Why the proper authorities of course. Running the gamut between the sensible and the reckless, the ethical and the unseemly, the members of these organizations are ultimately united by the fact that they are all vested in the status quo. What do political games and wealth matter in the face of invasion or destruction by the terrible forces which organize outside their walls? Even the most recalcitrant servant of the public good can be convinced to help when they realize their family could be on the line as well. Though not the community itself, those are the common folk, these organizations are the mortar that binds the structure together, allowing them to present at least something of a unified front.

          To use this generator simply roll 4d8 to get a sense of what kind of organization you're dealing with; it may be necessary to roll several times for larger communities to have several political poles to define your town or city. Even outside of their use as a storytelling device, these places are useful to players as potential sources of quests or aid.


d8
	
What sort of place is it?
1
	
Barracks/Guardhouse
2
	
Customs House
3
	
Guildhall
4
	
Prefect/Sheriff's Office
5
	
Military Order
6
	
Noble's Court
7
	
Temple
8
	
Elder's Abode

d8
	
What quality is the help you can receive here?
1
	
The extralegal kind. Conversely it is difficult to get the help the place is ostensibly supposed to provide.
2
	
As one would expect of the place, but the means to gaining it is excessively bureaucratic and roundabout.
3
	
The place functions normally, provided that you can bribe your way in.
4
	
The assistance is of high quality and without strings, but only the favored may avail themselves of it. Who is among the favored is determined by the leader.
5
	
Low, and without much zeal. They cannot turn anyone away, regardless of social strata.
6
	
High, but only citizens in good standing with the community are able to use the services.
7
	
Average, only those of a certain class can use it, such as those of a certain ethnicity or faith.
8
	
Average, however it is hopelessly overworked and the waiting list is at least 1d6 weeks long.


d8
	
What is the leader like?
1
	
Short tempered and overworked, but competent and dependable.
2
	
Distracted and half-hearted, a product of nepotism.
3
	
Kind, but ineffectual and relatively powerless in their own organization.
4
	
Domineering and power hungry, will try to utilize players to help themselves.
5
	
Eccentric and slightly bizarre with a focus on a hobby entirely unrelated to their own organization.
6
	
Responsible and busy, a true delegator who may have other obligations.
7
	
Prone to risky behaviors and indulging in vice, often needs to be talked out of poor courses of actions by their underlings.
8
	
Gregarious, with an eye towards expansion. May try to recruit or pressure the players into helping them.

d8
	
What is unique about it?
1
	
There are no doors, banners, tapestries or decorations - the better to spot potential assassins or thieves.
2
	
A familiar spirit has been bound to the place. Though it cannot affect the corporeal, it can protect against other incorporeal threats as well as observe intruders and warn the residents.
3
	
The place was made to be as self-sufficient as possible, there are areas set aside for the cultivation of food, a well and more.
4
	
The building which houses the organization is one of the largest and most reinforced in town, it finds use as a citadel when the community is threatened.
5
	
The structure is multi-purpose and extremely important. Many members of the community often visit every day, even if they have no need for services.
6
	
This particular organization is important to the wider world, perhaps they are a regional headquarters, perhaps they are the site of a pilgrimage. Regardless, the organization is notably wealthier than the community around them.
7
	
The organization is in possession of a holy relic, such as the bones of a saint. Extraplanar entities cannot enter the building without grievous harm coming to them.
8
	
The stones of the place have been enchanted somehow to prevent the use of teleportation magics. No one may safely use spells such as Blink, Dimension Door or Teleport within a mile of the building.