 A Hive of Scum & Villainy - a Table for Generating Places of Ill Repute


          These are the places your mother warned you of. Places of ill repute, where a person can get their needs slaked, whether it be for debauchery, indolence or vice. Inevitably they attract the worst elements of whichever community they are a part of, whether as sponsors or customers, and even the most amicable of them are willing to do nearly anything for a few extra coins. For all their faults, most authorities are unwilling to ban or curtail them completely, a community without some sort of release for its citizens is not long for this world.

          To use this generator simply roll 4d8 to get a picture of what kind of place you're dealing with. For smaller communities a single roll may suffice, but for larger polities it may be necessary to roll several times in order to simulate a red light or pleasure district. These locations are ideal for players as potential sources of revenue, mercenaries, rumors or simple downtime. For referees they provide an ample opportunity to introduce interesting NPCs or story hooks.


d8
	
What Sort of Place is it?
1
	
Drug Den.
2
	
Bar.
3
	
Dodgy Marketplace.
4
	
Racetrack.
5
	
Gambling Den.
6
	
"Philanthropic" Organization.
7
	
Brothel.
8
	
Arena.


d8
	
What Sort of People Frequent It?
1
	
High-society types, the elite.
2
	
Criminals, ne'er do wells and blackguards.
3
	
Working class folk.
4
	
Travelers, tourists, pilgrims.
5
	
Ethnically, culturally or racially exclusive.
6
	
People of a certain faith.
7
	
Petty Bourgeoisie.
8
	
All walks of life.


d8
	
Who Runs It?
1
	
Criminals.
2
	
Some sort of powerful and sinister being.
3
	
Some sort of powerful and benevolent being.
4
	
A member of the elite.
5
	
A guild or trade organization.
6
	
Outsiders, from another polity.
7
	
A church or other form of cult.
8
	
Individually owned.

d8
	
What is Unique About It?
1
	
Built in or atop the corpse or bones of some great beast.
2
	
The owners have connections to smugglers and can arrange the purchase of illegal goods.
3
	
The location is protected from magical intrusion, including scrying.
4
	
No matter the time, the place is never closed, they will always accept customers.
5
	
The place is protected by the powers that be, there is little to no chance of being hassled.
6
	
A secluded room in the establishment is home to a portal or gate to another dimension.
7
	
The location of the establishment rotates or shifts over time or by a set schedule.
8
	
It requires a password, certain style of dress or invitation to enter.