 Dragon Seeking Dungeon - a Courting and Marriage generator


Source is Fredrik K. T. Andersson


     Hey folks. It's yet another entry in my demographic generator series! Valentine's Day is just around the corner, so we're going to go over Love and Marriage

     Ah, love. Everyone wants it, everyone needs it. The way that we structure relationships seems familiar, natural even. But a married couple isn't even the only conception of love and commitment that shows up in our world. While polyamory has recently made a return in the West, polygyny is common in many parts of the world and has been for centuries. While arguably colonialism and industrialization destroyed or curtailed many of these ways of life, they are still completely valid and successful ways to raise a family or love your partner(s). Fantasy settings would be no different, arguably offering an even wider array of possible arrangements.

     To use this generator, simply roll 4d8 and consult the relevant results below. This is obviously a fraught topic, so I've tried to make most of the results as generic as possible.

d8
	

How does courting work?

1-3
	

Person meets Person, sparks fly and knots get tied.

4
	

It is generally arranged by the families of the betrothed, sometimes years in advance.

5
	

Arranged through benign community rituals—dances, mixers, games and festivals.

6
	

Outsiders are preferred, sometimes not necessarily willingly.

7
	

Courtship happens in secret, and the new lovers are simply announced once the marriage is.

8
	

Marriages here are only allowed if those entering it are of the same social class/caste.


d8
	

How are relationships structured?

1-3
	

Monogamy, two partners of usually equal standing.

4
	

Serial Monogamy, much like the above, but separations are not recognized.

5
	

Polyandry, feminine individuals may have multiple partners.

6
	

Polygyny, masculine individuals may have multiple partners.

7-8
	

Plural Marriage, multiple partners of any gender, generally attached to another equally.


d8
	

How are children reared?

1-3
	

The parents raise children between them, in a distinct and separate household.

4-5
	

Children are raised communally by their extended family.

6-7
	

The community as a whole raises children. They kids may not even know their parents.

8
	

Children are sent away to another location, perhaps another community, to be raised in a particular fashion.


d8
	

Who is property passed on to?

1
	

Oldest son.

2
	

The oldest daughter.

3
	

All brothers equally.

4
	

All sisters equally.

5
	

All children equally.

6
	

The family as a whole.

7
	

The community as a whole.

8
	

No one—goods are buried with the deceased.