
"So who gets to be a wizard?!" - a Generator for Societal views on Magic



It is time for yet another entry in my overall series in generating a setting's elements with tables, today we're going to go over how a society reacts to the presence of magic.

Most fantasy settings are fantastical because of a simple reason: magic is real. Though there is tinkering around the edges—low magic settings, magical undergrounds, urban fantasy—the core premise is that humans can affect the world in wonderous and impossible ways. This seems like a banal statement, but one that often is not always questioned by most world-building. Most societies in commonly held fantasy settings are ordered in ways that do not necessarily reflect the impact that being able to wield magic would have on them. Not including magic from the get-go can lead to a strange disconnection between magicians and the rest of the setting. Though this certainly could be played up for effect, most settings are probably aiming for a more seamless inclusion.

This set of tables aims to give you a starting point for how a society might regard magic and how it is used within it. To use this generator simply roll 4d8 and consult the relevant results below:

d8
	

Who is allowed to practice magic in this society?

1-2
	

Anyone with the aptitude, provided that they can afford the training or find an apprenticeship.

3-4
	

Anyone with the aptitude may learn, but only at a state-sponsored place such as a specific academy or tutor.

5
	

Only those of a certain gender expression may practice magic here.

6
	

Members of a certain family or set of families are allowed to wield magic.

7
	

Magic is completely or supposedly forbidden. The only practicioners are in secret.

8
	

Magical training is held by a group such as a church, cult or other mystically inclined organization. Only members of this organization are allowed to practice the art.


d8
	

How is magic seen here?

1-2
	

Fearfully. The use of magic and those who wield it are seen as ill-omened or even accursed.

3-4
	

With awe. Magic-users of any stripe are figures of respect and wonder.

5
	

A hedonistic pursuit, turning users soft against the hazards and boring iterations of daily life.

6
	

It is considered a diversion or hobby, no different from whittling or whistling.

7
	

Pragmatically. Practicioners may be expected to serve their community.

8
	

A repugnant pursuit, something to keep behind closed doors.

d8
	

What kind of eldritch power predominates here?

1-2
	

Arcane magic, the kind that sorcerers or wizards use.

3-4
	

Divine practices, those of druids or priests.

5-6
	

Cultivation of the Way, the power of psionics.

7-8
	

Magic here is generally gained through bargaining or intimidating beings such as outsiders or fae into giving up boons.


d8
	

What sort of practices are considered taboo?

1
	

Disturbing the dead or their souls.

2
	

The binding or enslavement of nature spirits.

3
	

Occlusion of the truth—the use of illusion or deceit.

4
	

Any kind of spell or effect that causes direct violence, up to and including death spells.

5
	

The beguiling or tampering with the mind or emotions of others.

6
	

Summoning creatures from other planes—Celesitals, Fiends or Elementals.

7
	

Any effect or spell is fine, but magic is only supposed to be practiced in particular circumstances, such as while being observed by another spellcaster, or while completely alone.

8
	

Any effect or spell is fine, but magic is only supposed to be practiced at a certain time, such as in the day or at night.