So, if you don’t know if this town is the kind of place that attracts Reality Warpers, roll on the first table. If you already know who’s there, or you’re just generating an NPC, skip the first table. If you don’t know their level, roll 1d6 at the end, adding mentor/school modifiers

———————————
Is there a wizard?  (Roll 1d8, +2 if in a thaumocracy, +1 if inside a city (5000+ citizens). Note that these modifiers are cumulative. In a large city, roll once  for each major ward or district)
———————————

    No
    No
    Hedge-mage/shaman/goodwife of power
    Hedge-mage &c.
    A Magic-user
    A Magic-user
    A Wizard (see “Seclusium of Orphone” and “Isle of the Unknown” for more information on the distinction between Wizards and Magic-users. Loosely, “Magic-users” use magic, “Wizards” ARE magic)
    Several of them (1d3 to 1d6, at your discretion)

———————————
Are they part of a cabal?
———————————

    Yes. Several of them. Someone’s going to be in trouble soon… (roll twice on the table, taking both results. Keep rolling if you keep getting ones..)
    Yes, and the cabal has powerful rivals; they’re in an active turf war
    A secular secret society, not limited to Magi
    Yes, and it’s (roll 1d6): 1-3 – riven by internal conflict, 4-6 – stable – for now. Magi being what they are, of course, they’re still jockeying quietly for advantage.
    Yes, and this mage is in charge (+1 level, may have missions for or claims upon a PC mage)
    No, but they have a rival with whom they are as friendly as wizards get.
    No, and they have a rival who’s a powerful enemy
    No, and they’ve pissed off a cabal or society
    No, and they’re at war with another independent
    No, and they were cast out of one
    No, and they’re in a position of public power (secular or religious)
    No, and they’re hiding from one (other than the Church)

———————————
How did they learn their skills?
———————————
(Roll 1d10 for Magi in rural or heavily chaos-tainted areas, roll 1d20 for cities or larger, add +1 if there’s a major thaumocracy or city in the area. Roll 1d6+2 for Wizards.)

    Raised in a local tradition (themed spell list, little ambition, but unlikely to be set afire. Roll 1d6 – on a 1-4, ignore the “why aren’t they on fire” table, and treat as “locals approve” )
    Local Tradition (as 1, above)
    They’re self-taught (all spells rolled randomly, seeks magical information and knowledge more aggressively, lower a level)
    Self-taught, (As 3, above. If a wizard, he was created by an Item of Power)
    Pacts and Infernal contracts (Must bargain a thing of supernatural value to learn further spells. Constantly looking for ways to pay that don’t hurt themselves.)
    Feyblooded (no iron in their home, despises gulls, gets a +2 on all rolls to learn spells, but can’t roll again. Ever.)
    Possessed (Uses demonic abilities, cannot learn new spells. Turning has a chance of removing the demon)
    Plasmically conceived (Learns spells instinctively; cut research times in half, but gains no benefit from a library.)
    They had a mentor (roll on the Mentor table, gains some free magical nexus or trinket as a gift)
    As 9, above
    They killed their mentor (roll on mentor table, gains 1d3 nexii/trinkets, add a level)
    Their mentor was killed by a rival (gains an enemy)
    They escaped their mentor (may be hunted – roll on Relationship table)
    They mentor another wizard (+2 levels. Roll another wizard, skipping this table, of level 1d3; roll for the student on “mentor” and “mentor relationship” tables)
    As 14, above
    Poached from their mentor by another wizard or school
    Tutored in a school or cabal, and they were expelled
    School/Cabal, still in tutelage (-1d3 levels)
    School/Cabal, still in tutelage (-1d3 levels)
    School/Cabal, graduate
    School/Cabal, graduate
    Yes, and they’re in charge (+1d3 levels)

———————————
Mentor sub-table
———————————

    Mentor was kind, but incompetent (-1 level, minor magical trinket or tool)
    Mentor was kind and competent (+1 level, minor trinket/tool)
    Mentor grew bored and cast them out (-1 level)
    Mentor was ruthless and cruel, but competent (+1 level, gain a spell of cursing)
    Mentor was ruthless and cruel, but incompetent (-1 level)
    Still under tutelage (-1 level)
    Actively plotting to kill or usurp mentor. May attempt to enlist PC aid.
    Tried to kill, but failed (Under a curse, seeking to lift)

———————————
Relationship with mentor?
———————————

    Respect, genuine
    Respect, grudging
    Raw hatred
    Subtle hatred
    Resentment
    Fear (even if he’s dead. ESPECIALLY if he’s dead)
    Lovers, or similar physical/metaphysical desires. (Roll again on the table to find the mentor’s opinion on the matter..)
    Fondness
    Condescension
    Apathy
    Curiosity (“where are they?”, “are there secrets they didn’t teach me?”, etc.)
    Mentor or student is unwillingly enspelled (Roll 1d6: 1-4 – student, 5-6, mentor)

———————————
Why isn’t the mage on fire?
———————————
(In a Thaumocracy, roll 1d12 – this is how they’re maintaining their own power against their rivals.)

    Political favors/blackmail (to include providing black magic services, enchantments, or implicating the “patron” in their own crimes)
    Stealth and concealment of powers
    Vulgar displays of power (raw fear. This wizard probably isn’t long for the Mortal Coil)
    Subtle displays of power (targeted curses, illusionary omens, &c)
    Has ensorcelled locals (strategic charm spells, keeps them under threat of a death-curse, etc)
    Has ensorcelled major official or patron
    Wizard is laying low, hiding from a warrant, rival, or lynch mob in a nearby place
    Kills all inquisitors and challengers, subtly
    Kills inquisitors and challengers, extremely unsubtly
    Powerful magical defenses (Sanctum, magical traps, summoned creatures, extradimensional bolthole, etc.)
    Powerful mundane defenses (Bodyguards, army, traps, fortified home)
    Political power (Wizard uses an official position as cover, or is shielded by a powerful patron)
    Owns or provides an indispensable service (widespread blackmail, providing protection against a greater threat than himself)
    Stealth and concealment of powers
    Locals know there’s a wizard, and they’re trying to find him (Adventure hook!)
    Locals don’t care, government cares (this can change rather abruptly depending on the wizard’s behavior or omens, plagues &c.)
    Locals disapprove, government doesn’t give a damn  – and is suppressing witch-hunts (Locals may attempt to hire PCs to assassinate)
    Local citizens are down with witchcraft, government does not approve (Locals will be actively obstructive)
    Citizens and government approve of witchcraft (Possibly on the way to a thaumocracy?)
    Lies (roll again on this table)
